Mr dolls here we need to recess from
clothes we will be returning to closed
at the end of the regular meeting we
have small items but don't have a motion
to recess and the related action items
sucking I have a motion in a second roll
call please Mr Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald
Mr Moon Mr Doss all right again I want
to welcome y'all here tonight
um we'll get into our regular meeting at
this time
um are there any additions to the agenda
Dr Jones
oh that's right we do have I'm sorry
thank you I'm getting ahead related
action item from close with Hancock
a motion to approve the request for
release from compulsory attendance based
on religious exemption for two students
second
okay I have a motion in a second roll
call please Mr Burton Mr Ms Fitzgerald
aye Mr Henderson aye Ms Merricks aye Mr
Mills yes Mr Moon Mr dolls uh we have a
motion to approve the Personnel changes
for May 9 2023 as presented
so move
Motion in a second roll call please Mr
Burton aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr
Henderson aye Ms Merricks Mr Mills yes
yes Mr Moon Mr dolls we have a motion to
waive School Board policy gbo PC
retirement from Ms Linda Rogers to allow
her to retire under the early retirement
incentive program effective July 1 2023.
have a motion in a second roll call
please Mr Burton Mr Fitzgerald Mr
Henderson aye Ms Merricks Mr Mays yes Mr
Moon Mr Doss
before he does here the case before he
goes yeah let's go ahead we have one
discipline case to announce
for case a expulsion with continuing
Educational Services to be provided by
the school and all for a placement at
the regional alternative school at the
beginning of the
2023-2024 school year and required the
student to complete the third millennium
program
[Music]
any discussion
no call please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks Mr mayles yes Mr Moon Mr Dallas
Dr Jones I think you have an
announcement tonight yes sir Mr Dawson
School members like to recommend this
evening the new principal of Twin
Springs Elementary School I'd like to
recommend to you all Mrs Stacy harble
Mrs horrible is currently the assistant
principal at Twin Springs she has served
as an elementary school teacher for 12
years at Brosville Elementary School and
six years at Southside she attended
Longwood University where she earned a
BS and also her Master's in education in
leadership I'd like to recommend Stacy
harvell this evening
[Music]
second any discussion or comments
okay roll call please Mr Burton Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks Mr Mills Mr Moon Mr Dallas
aye
okay now I did um a approval of the
agenda there are no additions
second
any questions roll call please Mr Burton
aye Ms Henderson
Mills yeah
[Music]
yeah I consent agenda
second
any questions on anything any consent
agenda
roll call please Mr Burton aye Mr
Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye Ms
Merricks aye Mr mayles yes Mr Moon Mr
dolls aye
public presentations first up we have
the character word of the month and I
believe all of you coming up right
I know this is probably y'all's last
meeting right I mean that will come in
this will be y'all's last meeting
we'll talk about that a little bit later
but it's been a pleasure
good evening everyone good evening
this month our character word is
citizenship
it's a word that you hear in history
class or in a voting ad during an
election year but what does it mean
what does being a good citizen have to
do with being a part of Pennsylvania
County Schools
some might say that citizenship is
voting when the polls open and staying
educated on current issues however those
aspects are only small pieces of the
puzzle
a successful citizen is able to apply a
combination of all of the other
character traits that we here in
Pennsylvania county so proudly represent
honesty respect
trustworthiness
the environment that is provided here
for students and staff alike allows for
not only proper educating but immense
personal development
President John Adams stated you will
always remember that the goal of study
is to make a good man and a useful
citizen
building citizens citizenship is the
true goal of the education system and it
is what we here in Pennsylvania county
schools do
hi
citizenship has one overarching theme
togetherness striving to unite a group
of people is the biggest principle of
citizenship taking the time to listen to
what your community needs and taking
steps to help everyone in your community
is imperative to being a good citizen
I know that I've been the hippie voice
on this school board preaching love and
happiness but simply taking care of each
other is citizenship at its finest for
the April word caring I mentioned how
human civilization was defined by a bone
getting broken and healed the earliest
form of citizenship was someone simply
caring for someone else by showing each
other these very simple dignities of
compassion and empathy we are
exemplifying citizenship
if you take nothing else from this year
of having a hippie on the school board
take this peace love and compassion are
all you need to be an exceptional
citizen
hello everybody
the president Theodore Roosevelt said
the first requisite of a good citizen in
this Republic of ours is that he shall
be willing and able to pull his own
weight as my colleagues have discussed
citizenship is an essential to the
structure of our society citizenship is
more than being a member of a union or
state citizenship is doing your part to
secure the welfare of your community
Virginia is defined as a commonwealth
because its Founders base the government
upon the sovereignty of the people for
the common good
it is our jobs as Citizens to ensure
that this common good flourishes from
community service to running for local
office the possibility of what you as a
citizen can do for your community is
endless
I'm here tonight to warn our listeners
and viewers of the dangers of being a
passive citizen a passive citizen is
someone who cares about the state of
their Community but does nothing to
change it
this is dangerous because too many
people are becoming passive citizens in
our community
so before we leave tonight I would like
to encourage everyone to get out and
participate in your community go out and
participate in community service take
the chance to participate in local
government and vote every chance you get
and most importantly be good people
good evening being a good citizen means
having compassion for others and as a
community We should strive to be a
helping hand for those in need a
shoulder to cry on in times of struggle
or just simply a friendly face in public
as a community we should come together
and hold events for the public to enjoy
clean up this County that we all call
home and be United not divided good
citizens have trust Faith respect
kindness and self-control every
character word we have discussed this
year
goes into being a good citizen
if we Embrace these traits then we have
good citizenship being a good citizen is
not a difficult task you have to want to
be a good citizen to truly make a
difference thank you
thank y'all again it's been a real
pleasure
every year we have four seniors one from
each High School represent their school
on this Bowen and this has been a
fantastic group we'll talk to them a
little bit after fact Dr Jones I'm going
to let you do it now
you got a presentation
there and
yeah
yes
as you can see we have an exceptional
group of young people that have served
the school board this school year
do we have parents and grandparents
relatives here who'd like I'd like to
recognize this time I see a few if you'd
like to stand up if you have a child or
a grandchild here serving we appreciate
you all support this year we realize
they have had to take their Tuesday
afternoons at least Tuesday afternoons
to be with us you see one young lady has
left left her ball game this afternoon
to be here as well that's the type of
dedication that this group has
exemplified
we also utilize their skills to present
our character word of the month and then
our I.T Department goes back to their
schools and they work with the
principals and Librarians or whomever to
actually videotape them presenting the
character word of the month and then we
will present that at our other schools
so we use these individuals a lot they
also chair what we call our student
leaders form that's a group of students
they're leaders in 9th 10th 11th 12th
grade they're the chair of each of the
schools and we bring that group together
to talk about school issues but this
group has been outstanding we are in a
good place in Pennsylvania county
to have individuals like this who are
our future who care
for themselves that they do well but
also care for their schools that their
schools represent who they are who the
student body is they're so concerned
about that they've done an outstanding
job this time we have a certificate that
Mr Dawes our chairman will present to
them we also have a gift that Mr Scott
our assistant superintendent for
operations will present to them in Mrs
Reynolds our director of technology that
is a new Chromebook you all have brought
back your old Chromebook is that correct
we're going to exchange it for the new
this is Theirs to take they can use it
next year how they see fit as they go
off to
College University
those next steps for them so this time
we'd like to recognize him first from
Chatham High School the parents and
grandparents for each individual would
stand up again as they come up Cody
scarce if Cody will come up
[Applause]
[Music]
sir
ations
[Applause]
[Music]
Cody if you can hang just right over we
want to get a whole group picture yeah
okay
from Dan River High School Grace Daws
[Applause]
[Music]
okay and I believe her sister was also a
Schoolboy representative three two years
ago three years ago
okay uh
from Gretna High School Matthew Hearn
Matthew
[Applause]
[Music]
and from Tunstall High School Mackenzie
Harris
[Applause]
[Music]
and I think we have the principles the
principals can come down our High School
principles you all will come down as
well we get a print a picture with all
of us
here
oh my God
[Music]
okay next we're going to do the
valedictorians in a saludator Torrance
we're going to recognize them and follow
the board members will go down please
however
you want to get
good evening chairman Doss school board
members Dr Jones it is my pleasure to
recognize our valedictorians and
salutatorians from each of our high
schools this evening
assisting with these recognitions will
be Ms Elizabeth Craig director of
secondary schools
we will first recognize
Chatham High School
I will read the first certificate we
have our
principal Mr Jason Reese and also
assistant principals are Angela
andropont and Aldrich beard
thank you
the first certificate reads Pennsylvania
County Schools this certificate of
excellence is presented to Cody Allen
scarce in recognition for being the 2023
Chatham High School class valedictorian
presented this ninth day of May 2023 by
the Pennsylvania County School Board
Calvin Doss School board chairman
Kelly Merricks School Board Vice
chairman
congratulations Cody
[Applause]
[Music]
congratulations Cody scarce
Cody's parents are welcome to stand
guests to be recognized
parents grandparents
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Music]
our next student is also Chatham High
School
Matthew David scares in recognition for
being the 2023 Chatham High School class
Saluda salutatorian parents and
grandparents please stand
okay
our next students are from Dan River
High School
administrators
principal
Anastasia brumail
assistant principals Franklin Ferguson
and Jonathan Fame
Grayson Elizabeth Sneed in recognition
for being the 2023 Dan River High School
class Co valedictorian
[Applause]
[Music]
foreign
Colin Benjamin Stevens in recognition
for being the 2023 Dan River High School
class Co valedictorian
[Music]
parents grandparents and guests please
stand
next we will recognize students from
retina High School
principal Eric Moon assistant principals
Chad Scruggs and Katina Wright
and as a call each student's name with
grandparents parents guests if the
student please stand
Jaden Ratliff in recognition for being
the 2023 Gretna High School class
valedictorian
[Applause]
[Music]
Matthew Hearn in recognition for being
the 2023 Gretna High School class
salutatorian
[Applause]
[Music]
and now we will recognize students from
Tunstall High School Brian Bowles
principal
Lisa tan and Dustin Eccles assistant
principals
Taylor Grace Dotson in recognition for
being the 2023 Tunstall High School
class Co valedictorian
[Applause]
[Music]
Emma Reese Dowdy in recognition for
being the 2023 Tunstall High School
class Co valedictorian
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you
Addison Dean hunsicker in recognition
for being the 2023 Tunstall High School
class Co valedictorian
[Applause]
[Music]
John Christopher Mills in recognition
for being the 2023 Tunstall High School
class Co valedictorian
foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
Payne in recognition for being the 2023
Tunstall high school class
co-valedictorian
[Applause]
[Music]
Emma Reese Dowdy in recognition for
being the 2023 Piedmont Governor School
salutatorian
[Applause]
[Music]
Colin Mills in recognition for being the
2023 Academy of engineering and
Technology salutatorian
[Music]
[Applause]
interestingly
Colin is a student at Dan River High
School so we're going to ask Miss brumel
to come down and take a picture as well
[Laughter]
that's okay
uh-oh
and Chatham High School
we'll get this one right
Jason Reese
Gabrielle Griffin in recognition for
being the 2023 Academy of engineering
and Technology valedictorian
[Applause]
[Music]
yes
keep
it
congratulations to all of our
valedictorians and salutatorians
[Music]
[Applause]
I'll tell you one thing for y'all going
to Tunstall high school for graduation
you're going to be there all day if all
those have to speak
[Laughter]
I've I've done this for 20 years and
I've never seen that many code
valedictorians at one time that is
really special it really is
students did a great job
um up next Miss Patty's going to
recognize the robotics competition
correct yes sir and also assisting this
Elizabeth Craig director of secondary
education
students will be recognized from
Tunstall High School
Mr Brian Bull's principal
sponsor Dr Jessica Jones
please join us
and as I call each student's name
parents grandparents and guests of the
student you're welcome to stand
to be recognized
this birth certificate reads
Pennsylvania County Schools the
certificate of excellence is presented
to
the student in recognition and
appreciation for outstanding achievement
for placing third and team think award
at the robotics first robotics
competition granted this ninth day of
May 2023 by the Pennsylvania County
School Board Calvin Dawes school board
chairman Kelly Merrick School Board Vice
chairman
these students are all recognized for
the team think award first
Charles Frazier
placed third in team think award
[Music]
[Applause]
s
congratulations
[Applause]
James Thomas placed third in team think
Awards
Brittany Dalton placed third in team
think award
[Applause]
Alex
foreign
[Applause]
[Music]
Carter King placed third in team think
award
[Applause]
congratulations
Blake swiger placed third and team think
award
[Applause]
congratulations
Zach Inman placed third in team think
award
[Applause]
[Music]
congratulations
[Applause]
Colin Snead placed third in team think
award
[Applause]
okay
just in case just in case
congratulations
[Applause]
foreign
Davis placed third in team think award
congratulations
[Applause]
our next category
these students placed third in team
innovate award at the first robotics
competition
Charles Frazier placed third in team
innovate award
[Applause]
you didn't ride Joe
good
congratulations
[Music]
[Applause]
James Thomas placed third in team
innovate award
Brittany Dalton placed third in team
[Applause]
[Music]
congratulations
[Applause]
[Music]
Carter King placed third in team
innovate award
[Applause]
[Music]
congratulations
[Applause]
Blake swiger plays third in team
innovate award
[Applause]
to come over
congratulations
[Applause]
[Music]
Zach Inman placed third in team innovate
award
[Applause]
[Music]
Colin Snead plays third and team
innovate award
[Applause]
[Music]
and Mia Davis placed third and team
innovate award
congratulations to all of our students
and thank you parents grandparents and
guests for all of your support of these
students thank you so much
[Applause]
foreign
it's always a pleasure to get to
recognize students for their
achievements
and I know as parents and family members
you're proud of them and we are too so
congratulations to all those students
who will recognize tonight to you and we
wish you all a lot of success going
forward
up next introduction of new employees
Miss Mayhew do you have any
Mr Murphy from Chattanooga Village
met Miss Murphy I'm not
okay this is Miss Teresa Murphy and
she's going to be the new Administrative
Assistant bookkeeper at Chatham
Elementary School effective um
July 1. okay
congratulations welcome aboard
[Applause]
[Music]
Mr chairman yes since we recognizing
folks could I have a moment yes
Mark Shields would you stand up
this is the first one that's had enough
nerve to sign up to run for school board
in my district so I want anybody to put
a face with it maybe others but he is
running and I won't be here next year so
I don't want anybody to know who he is
thank you for coming mark
good to have you
[Music]
okay up next we have the Pea
um Dr Jessica Jones
he's coming
we almost there Dr Jones
almost there
where did the time go this year it's
been awful fast hasn't it
no I thought it had
well I will say this much
at August come
may can be as
big okay
did it go by fast for y'all class of
it did look one honest one of the
bunches tell the truth now tell you
so uh chairman Dawson is with a
privilege superintendent Jones school
board members essential office staff all
those in attendance to stand here before
you today and say we almost there on
behalf of the children
and the parents and the teachers thank
y'all
for letting us get out of here in less
than two weeks thank you so much thank
you I've Got Friends and Associates in
other school divisions that won't get
out to the almost the middle of June
so yeah so when we say we almost there
some folks really are not
they're not
um and then I also want to say happy
Teacher Appreciation Week can we all
give a round of applause to our teachers
[Applause]
[Music]
but you can keep it going you keep going
so uh you know teaching is a thankless
job
students hopefully you have said Thank
you to your teachers this week folks
that are watching make sure you say
thank you to your teachers this week
should not be something that you were
told to do it should be something that
comes from the heart right my colleagues
and in this profession do countless
things that people don't see
to make sure that you get the results
that you do see
so make sure you say thank you to all
your teachers for what they do and
though this should have been a week that
we celebrated last week it got pushed to
this week right and people are like oh I
didn't know it was teacher appreciation
week so just do a little bit of extra
special particularly on Friday that's my
birthday I can take double presents if
you come to D105 in Tunstall High School
you know what a a lady never tells her
age and I'm not a day past 25.
God is good for his grace and his mercy
and please Lord don't hold that lie
against me later uh but no I mean
honestly it's it's a privilege to have
it this week as we look at the fact that
it's also Nurses Week celebration those
in public service right that we're
giving who we are and our character word
of the month talking about citizen you
know the public servants are citizens
they give and they give without the
thanks because they want to do what's
right and it's interesting enough you're
doing what's right when people don't
know that they're being watched so last
week I actually had the opportunity to
have a one-on-one conversation with
Becky Pringle uh Miss Pringle is
actually the president of the National
Education Association
and I was watching her walk into our
event and she stopped because she saw
one of the members just crying
and she consoled her and she talked with
her and she prayed with her and I was
you know on the stairs watching
and she she was supposed to be in at a
certain time and she would not she
wouldn't stop
doing what she was doing right then and
there in that moment in that time
and you want to talk about servitude
the lady that I looked at went from just
distraught and tears to smiling
and later when I had the opportunity to
talk to Miss Pringle I told her why I
had witnessed
and I told her about the servitude and
the genuineness
the honesty like you could truly see
she's a transparent person and she
shared with me that the individual in
question had lost her husband
and it wasn't that long ago
and she was still grieving through that
though she had to be at this event it
was it was bothering her
and somebody had at one point in time
stopped to say I'm with you
and that collectiveness that
togetherness that you talked about is
love and well
and all your teachers and president
Pringle embodied that when she didn't
realize somebody else was watching
and that's what makes you a good person
that's what makes this week even better
because teachers do so much when you're
not being watched or at least you don't
think people are
but you as students are watching your
people all day
long
and I want you to take away the good
that is being done again the
beautifulness behind being a public
servant
doing what's right because it's the
right thing to do that's been my theme
for the entire year every time I've
spoken at this podium
so as we move forward in society as good
citizens we need to not let it just be a
moment in time
but the attitude towards who we are as
people
to understand that this week is
celebrated but it's something that
should be embodied and emboldened every
single day
because people are still going to do
what's right
even when they don't think anybody else
is watch it
so at last month's meeting I did bring
up a few things
and I share now as I did then
that as we end the school year and
embark on a new
there's some things that we should work
together to ensure
best instructional practices
and as Dr Jones said earlier we're in
good hands for the future
because we got the best and the
brightest right in front of us
strategies and model practices that
Advance Equity inclusion
that's a welcoming place for all
regardless of your Creed your background
or where you go in your future just that
you have the right opportunities to get
you there
racial and social justice
trauma-specific practices because we
have seen a whole lot in this world get
ugly
but how do we deal with it in the right
way
cultural responsiveness
transparency and how we evaluate one
another
Recruitment and Retention strategies
though we appreciate we still must
recruit and we must keep who we have and
sometimes the two words thank you go a
whole lot further than what you think
the staff Wellness including but not
limited to mental health and financial
welfare
two things that sit at the top of
people's minds and then the bottom of
their hearts but rarely do they say it
out their mouth
because they don't want to share that
most private piece of them
because they're afraid that somebody
might judge them
and of course community and family
engagement
it takes a village
and our village continues to change and
continues to broaden and we all must
come together to ensure our future is
bright
so again we all want what's right what's
fair in every way possible for everyone
in our community
and I continue to say every voice
matters and we need to take action to
undergo that no one person is more
important than the other
we have to Value every role in our
school division because every person
matters in our community
so continue to do right when people are
watching and when they're not
thank you thank you hope you have a good
summer
[Applause]
all right up next are staff and
committee reports on the
2023-2024 budget updates MS warley
and for those who don't know the state
still has not passed the budget for this
year with the Amendments we do have a
past budget that was last year's budget
so if you'll explain how this works I'd
appreciate it
good evening chairman Dahl school board
members and staff I am here this evening
to give you a quick update on our 2024
budget
um just a quick recap as you all know
the proposed budget that we prepared was
based on the house version from the
general assembly it included a seven
percent raise for staff and that is what
we um started working on back in January
February but right now as Mr Doss said
the state has not passed a budget that
includes any amendments from the general
assembly session
so they have reverted back to what the
state is calling the skinny budget and
my assumption is the skinny budget is
called that because it doesn't include
any of these abundant revenues that are
sitting at our state level right now but
in order for us to move forward with
next year to issue contracts we are
going to work from the skinny budget at
this time
salaries have reverted back to a five
percent increase for staff and that is
what we will be using to issue contracts
within the next couple of weeks because
we do want to get those out before staff
leaves for the summer
we are hopeful that there will be some
amendments we are hearing a lot of
chatter out of Richmond but we know that
that is not going to happen until the
end of June
so we will be vigilant we will be
watching the news reading the newspapers
um and we will be looking for those
amendments and when they do come in as
we are hoping
um we will then make changes
right now we um we're just going to kind
of sit on our priorities and we're gonna
the main item of course will be to get
our contracts out but if A Change Is
Made we are ready and we will go back to
the drawing board and we will um try to
get those
um implemented before our new year
starts
questions from board members any other
information
anybody have any questions
I know it's putting an extra burden on
y'all I appreciate y'all's hard work I
know it's going to put a burden on y'all
getting it this late
I know Mr Burton has said earlier today
that it seems like every year it gets a
little later and a little later when we
get into September and October on this
it's going to be pretty tough yeah State
should have already passed a budget they
should have done it in February
just so you all know here we are they
saying now June
so
makes it tough on y'all I know thank you
Miss Marley
Elementary stem program Project Lead the
Way and we're going to do anything with
that
who's coming oh okay
you're not miss Petty that's what I had
on my list
okay good evening everyone I'm Melanie
Chapel I am one of the elementary stem
resource teachers um most of you know
last year I was so low I was all by
myself we are fortunate enough this year
to have two other team members and I'm
here to introduce them as we get ready
to do our presentation so I have with me
today this is Tamara Ferguson
and Miss Kathleen McGarvey
and this Ferguson is going to start our
presentation
good evening as miss Chapel mentioned
I'm Tamara Ferguson and I will Begin by
telling you about our wonderful
Elementary stem program
we provide Steam for
all of our students well fourth and
fifth grade project and problem-based
learning and all of our 10 elementary
schools
we create awareness and provide
instruction for students in the career
fields of engineering and technology and
also to be familiar with 21st century
skills
I'm going to do a quick overview of our
program we primarily work with fourth
and fifth grade students and it's
amazing to see how they work through all
of the challenges that we present to
them during our stem lessons we also
assist with third grade with State
performance assessments
we create a professional Learning
Network to support classroom teachers
and provide Innovative instruction for
the students
our lessons also once again provide
problem and project-based learning to
develop the five C's
we also integrate the computer science
standards across the curriculum
and we model deep integration of core
content and daily learning activities in
order to solve Global problems and now
I'm going to turn it over to Kathleen
McGarvey to talk about our Community
Partnerships
good evening
here we have some pictures of our
Partnerships from the top left we have a
mountain valley Pipeline and some of
their representatives Project Lead the
Way which is a problem-based curriculum
that we've been implementing this year
we have our lovely Stem Elementary staff
pictured by the tree with Miss Deborah
Powell our wonderful principal and the
three instructors
Danville Regional Foundation who has
been a
deep and ongoing partnership almost
since the stem Academy's Inception
and what else do we have next era stem
provided us with that lovely little
mobile that we're also pictured in front
of it helps us transport materials and
curriculum and teachers to each of the
10 elementary schools so that we can
push into those classrooms and bring
them our curriculum and Huber engineered
Woods is one of our newest Partnerships
that we are cultivating
a special thank you to Pennsylvania
County schools for all of your support
also to our financial supporters Dan
River Basin Association Mountain Valley
pipeline nextera energy Huber engineered
woods and Danville Regional Foundation
this is a quick look at the curriculum
that we used in the fourth and the fifth
grade we intentionally mirrored a lot of
the content there since it was our first
year pushing into both grade levels and
beginning the Project Lead the Way
modules they included modules in
computer science using Project Lead the
Way scientific engineering practices and
measurement the use of Technology such
as Vernier probeware we introduced
robotics with Sphero bolts and ozobots
and I used Z space which is a virtual
reality slash virtual
no I'm sorry augmented reality program
it's a little combination of the two
that does 3D modeling we taught coding
and computer science skills and
additionally in fifth grade we had
electricity and using snap circuits and
a few other science concepts for the
fifth graders that tuned it up a little
bit
I'm going to pass this to miss Chapel at
this time so she can conclude our
presentation
so we have some photographs of just some
of our activities just kind of like a
snapshot of things that we've done this
year and complete it in the classroom we
have some rock candy examples that we
made rock candy with scientific
investigation in some of our classrooms
and then there's a picture of Z space
robotics plant cells then we have our
table set up with some projectile
launchers because we have maker space
carts and every um for all four of our
stem Labs right now and then the Escape
rooms
and then here's just an example I'm
showing you some of the new items we
were able to get through some of our
grant funders this year the dash Bots
the ozobots and then in the center you
see teacher-led stations because our
model we push into the classroom so the
classroom teacher is actually leading a
station with us so we're kind of
co-teaching coaching as we move through
our lessons there's a principal there's
Ms Atkins from Roswell Elementary she is
doing some interaction with some of the
students on Steam night that we
participated in and then you see some
scientific investigations and some
coding with scratch
um this is just a snapshot of some of
our elementary stem Labs we've had a big
initiative this year trying to Pilot
four of our elementary schools worth
implementing stem Labs there so you see
some pictures there and you're going to
see some better views in just a second
because we have a surprise video for you
so this is what some of the students had
to say this is kind of a snapshot of
some of our things we've done this year
[Music]
thank you
foreign
the one thing I liked about stem was
where we had Dakota scratch and then it
was easier to code sphere box after we
got to our
how to code scratch
[Music]
important because we can use it for our
jobs and it can help in so many things
it was important because you get to
learn things that you won't really learn
in their normal classes
my favorite thing about stem was that we
programmed our little robots and we
could drive them around in shape so it
was very fun and I liked the colors and
everything it was very Hands-On and I
like being able to do stuff like that so
I didn't believe the way it was fun
because we could use ozone parts and
they were really fun to play with and we
learned about inputs and outputs and
and helped me build up teamwork skills
I like working as a team and it has like
series of spin
project leads away was fun because it
helped us build our teamwork skills and
saw different problems we also learned
how to do inputs and outputs on the
little robots thank you for supporting
us
and we will continue to have fun and
learn more
this year the input output module from
the pltw helped our students understand
computer science skills and they were
able to transfer these skills before
they learned from scratch coding into
their robotics
foreign
[Music]
so you can see we've been very busy and
we have really pushed forward with that
program and we're very happy with the
outcome so far so our future plans is
um of course there was one of me last
year so we now have three so we will
continue to integrate steam into all
core subject areas and incorporate more
grade levels each year so we hope to
expand that this coming school year to
other great levels as well and expand in
our professional learning community
and today we were actually fortunate
enough we had a lot of visitors come to
visit us in one of our stem Labs at
Southside Elementary and we actually
have one of them who's attending tonight
so we have Huber engineered Woods who
was a big sponsor for us to implement
Project Lead the Way this year so now I
want to introduce to you Mr Drew
Robertson who is the inventor manager at
Huber engineered Woods he's been with
Huber for 28 years Hebrew is our grant
funder for Project Lead the Way which is
a new platform that we welcome in our
elementary stem program this year
foreign
[Applause]
Happy Teacher Appreciation Week to all
the teachers all four of my kids
graduated from Chatham High School so
I've always appreciated the work that
the Pennsylvania county has done in
getting our young kids ready for the
future the company that I work for JM
Cuba Corporation once a year they open
up to all four thousand of their
employees around the world the
opportunity to apply for Huber grants
for organizations and projects in their
local community that um that be funded
and when they opened it up for me I um I
decided to apply for the schools
division here to see if um they had
anything I got in touch with Mr Burton
who got me in touch with Miss Petty who
told me about their stem program and at
the time they were trying to get a
vehicle for their uh their stem
instructors to be able to go around to
the different schools and so we put
together our our application and applied
for this vehicle and it got turned down
but it only got turned down because
Huber had uh made a partnership with
Project Lead the Way it hadn't even been
announced yet and they said instead of
just doing a grant for money for the van
what uh Pennsylvania County schools be
interested in a two-year pilot project
with Project Lead the Way so that's the
way that this all came about the visit
today at the school was great all the
talking about it the applying and the
application for it to see it actually
converted into kids sitting down in the
classroom working with the little robots
put it into inputs and outputs and
getting that little robot to go around
that table the way that it needed to go
it was it was really exciting and
engaging so I'm glad that the project
lead the way turned out to be a good fit
and hopefully it'll be something that
we'll be able to continue thank you very
much thank you we appreciate your
support too
thank y'all I'll have to tell you one
it's not really Elementary stem but I
visited some schools today
and I went in one of the schools in the
middle school and they were making
things for Mother's Day and they were
going over to the computer designing it
on the cad system and then going to the
3D printer and printing it
and they were the most excited students
should ever seen because they were
actually designing the stuff and had
been able to print it and take it home
tomorrow and it's just fantastic that
stuff didn't exist when I went to school
but it was fantastic and they they were
having a ball doing it it was fun for
them but they were learning so much and
that's the kind of technology that they
will walk into this world do when when
they get into the workforce went in
another one and they had little robots
about this big that they had made out of
what looked like Legos to me something
similar to a Lego and they were running
them up and down the hall should I see
who could outrun who
and um they were they were having a good
time so the technology has come a long
way and y'all have done a fantastic job
with it and to see what y'all doing now
down in the elementary schools is
fantastic keep up the good work and we
really appreciate it thank you
all right up next in the committee
reports is Crisis Management training I
just got to see you ready
good evening starting at the beginning
of the current semester division level
and building level administrators across
the school system have engaged in a
series of Crisis Management training
activities focused upon the
implementation of best practices is set
forth in Pennsylvania county schools
crisis management plan and the standard
response protocol which is a crisis
response and reunification format
developed for use by law enforcement
agencies fire and rescue entities and
school divisions in the wake of a series
of school tragedies in Colorado and
other areas of the country
during the initial round of training in
January attendees executed a series of
reunification simulations to practice
the skills and procedures that would be
essential in reuniting students with
their families after emergencies
requiring School evacuation following
these exercises participants can
reconvened in April with local law
enforcement officials of a First
Responders and Community stakeholders to
conduct a series of tabletop crisis
response simulations to facilitate
communication understanding and
cooperation among the various groups
that would be involved in responding to
a large-scale crisis in one or more of
our schools
the Insight gained through these
training sessions has been and will
continue to be used by building level
administrators and conducting their
emergency preparedness exercises and by
division level teams and guiding the
continual process of review and revision
that shapes Pennsylvania County Schools
crisis management plan and it guides its
Associated protocols the school board
has given its support to these Endeavors
by approving the incorporation of the
SRP into the divisions crisis management
documents and practices the next phase
of Crisis Management training in
Pennsylvania county schools will begin
on Monday July 31st with the conducting
of a full-scale mass casualty drill
in collaboration with the Pennsylvania
County Sheriff's Department to Gretna
Middle School and Gretna High School
have been chosen as the sites for this
activity
their close proximity to local fire and
rescue headquarters and to medical
facilities that are equipped to handle
trauma make them ideal sites for this
exercise the administrators of these
buildings have already begun enlisting
the participation of their schools
faculties and staffs and administrators
teachers and support staff members from
all schools in the division will have
the opportunity to actively participate
in this activity by assuming the roles
of Administrators teachers students and
parents a crisis response training event
of this magnitude is unprecedented in
our County and in much of our region the
Virginia State Police the local
headquarters of the Virginia Department
of Transportation representatives from
the Virginia Department of Criminal
Justice Services local health care
service providers and numerous fire and
rescue departments and local and
Regional media Outlets will join the
sheriff's department and the School
Division in this live simulation
prior to the date scheduled for the
event a series of public service
announcements in signage located along
local thoroughfares will inform the
public of this drill to minimize any
disruption and concern that may be
caused by the presence of large numbers
of participants and emergency response
Personnel in the area on the day of the
activity so we are certainly looking
forward to being able to provide this
training to our staff we hope that we
never have to put these practices into
action in the case of a real emergency
but we certainly can never be too
prepared to handle them in the event
that they should occur
all right thank you Mr Scott anybody
have any questions Mr Scott on this
thank you
anybody have any questions on the two
dash reports
if not we'll move on to the
superintendent's report
yes sir Mr Dawson school board members I
have a few items in your packets this
evening that I'd like to kind of draw
your attention to the first is a letter
to division superintendents from the
attorney general I just like to ask that
you read that I will provide additional
information regarding that topic over
the summer so that's just for
informational purposes only the second
item just to remind you all that the
Career Technical Center has their plant
cell going on at this time it ends on
May the 19th they're open from nine to
three
I have a copy of the Strategic plan
report
for your review this evening that
document we will use to craft our
2024-2030 strategic plan there are five
priorities listed there Priority One
student learning and outcomes respondus
of the survey staff parents and students
indicate the top priorities in this area
are teaching students communication
problem solving skills and
self-management
the second priority priority two student
support
respondents indicated the priorities
related to mental health and behavior
support and they should be the top
priorities for Pennsylvania County
Schools
priority three School climate culture
uh inspiring students to enjoy learning
and providing a safe learning space for
students on the highest priority in this
area
priority four engaging families and
communities
a respondents view communicating
effectively with parents and involving
parents and their child's learning as
the highest priority moving forward in
this area and priority five Staffing and
staff development the top priority here
is for Pennsylvania County Schools to
recruit and retain high quality teachers
again Dr Holland as you recall is
leading she's chairing this committee
over the summer she'll be working to
draft a draft version of the Strategic
plan for your review and for revisions
next fall
uh the the next item I have is student
leaders form I'm going to kind of prep
our student leaders to if they'd like to
share comments regarding the Forum but I
kind of want to highlight give you all
an idea of what was discussed I think Mr
Fitzgerald was there that day with us
but on that occasion we had our student
Representatives chairing each group of
9th 10th 11th 12th grade student leaders
from their schools we convened in here
and we talked about topics of interest
to our students that they felt were
important to address
first Dr Holland did a review well first
we did team building activities and I
believe Chatham High School team won the
first team building activity they had
team members had to raise
Dale Rod to the ground and back up who
could do that the quickest and I think
Chatham Middle School won that and then
next we had to get acquainted
Bingo and I believe a student from
Tunstall High School won that
uh but then we got into the meat of the
meeting uh with Dr Lillian Holland going
through the Strategic plan and getting
put input from our students uh regarding
the plan they indicated that they felt
that academic support in the division is
good
Morse focus should be placed on social
and behavioral supports for students
after covid-19 they see a big need for
that particular coming out of covet
they feel safe in school
students would like additional
instruction or communication skills
and they are seeking more rigor in
classes and they would like to see more
problem-solving activities
we also discussed the cell phone policy
bullying dress code student parking
passes and school cleanliness
any other items that you all would like
to share
also something I just want to say that
it was very very fun to go to that and
when my group first got there they're
very quiet and they didn't know what to
do they didn't want to say anything
because they didn't want to say the
wrong thing
but what I told them was that y'all were
looking for a student's opinion because
we're the ones in the school dealing
with this so I feel like once they got
that in their brains they really started
to open up about what they wanted to see
improve Improvement on and then by the
end we were with Mr Bowles in the car
and we were talking about what we had
talked about the whole way back to
school and I felt like it was really
eye-opening for them because they shared
it with everyone at school what we had
talked about
okay
I also just wanted to mention that it is
not unheard of in other organizations to
where you take a climate feedback survey
and the employees or whoever it may be
fill out these surveys and then it goes
unnoticed so it's very good to see that
you're actively working in our feedback
into the plan for the next couple of
schools
um I just want to say that with that
bingo I was the only redhead there
so it was up to me to let that Tunstall
kid win
I just wanted to mention how diverse a
group that the schools were able to
choose for the representatives and how
that really helped to benefit the Forum
and the content of the Forum because it
when I got to the actual leadership
Forum I didn't know exactly who was
going to be on my panel but it ended up
being students that I wouldn't normally
see together talking in a group or in a
certain friend group we were all kind of
spread out from different areas and from
different you know social groups within
the school and I think that that really
benefited the power of the form and our
ability to really give honest genuine
feedback from a variety of perspectives
I think our staff was very impressed
with the level of maturity that our
students possess and to feed the good
feedback that we received from them you
know we'll take this and we'll weave
this into our plan but we're here to
improve and we surely want to hear from
our our customers which are our students
and we appreciate your good work they
were tasked with getting with their
their classmates and bringing to us the
concerns that they had so thank you all
the last item I have
on this part of the agenda of upcoming
vsba conferences are there for you all
if you'd like to register for those
compses so those are there there's one
on July the 13th up in Charlottesville
that's all I have so nice thank you Dr
Jones
up we have no unfinished businesses so
we'll start our new business the July
disciplinary committee meeting we need
to set a date
Gene
19th holidays
okay we need to change it because it was
set on June the 19th and that that's a
holiday
20th June who's on that
you know no that's okay
can I have a motion just to move out
from 19th to the 20th end of June please
exactly okay profile please
Burton
Henderson
aye Ms Merricks Tomatoes yeah yeah Mr
dolls
aye
the
2023-2024 student representatives to the
school Bowl
yes sir Miss adults and school board
members uh we are very pleased this
evening to be able to announce to you
all and recognize next year's student
representatives to the school board and
at this time I'd like to ask that as I
call your name do we want to just have
them stand up at their states we'd like
them to come but well we have to come
forward with Scott and Mr Scott if
you'll get a picture he'll come forward
and would like to ask the parents and
relatives to stand up at your places to
be recognized as well so we're going to
begin in alphabetical order with our
high schools first High School is
Chatham High School and Mr Reese if
you'll come down first student is
Tristan Hernandez is Tristan here to see
you
thank you
[Music]
Tristan is the son of Merced and Vicki
Hernandez
he participates in concert band marching
band jazz band National senior Beta Club
scholastic bowl interact club and the
Chatham High School kindness rocks Club
okay okay next from
let me ask let's add some more because
I've skipped some things for Tristan let
me ask some other things he has received
the following rewards National Hispanic
recognition award for college for the
College Board National Rural and small
town recognition for the College Board
and he was the winner of the nscda
national Congressional essay contest he
has also served as a 10th grade class
vice president
High brass section leader
brass captain and team captain for the
Scholastic Bowl
that's Tristan Hernandez next
from Dan River High School
Anne-Marie Grace Mays
Anne-Marie is the daughter of James and
Laura Mays
her extracurricular activities include
beta Club
FFA science club drama club
and Ace
she has received recognition as a second
place Regional level winner of the 2021
Young Writers competition
she also served as the 11th grade Ace
captain
[Music]
from Gretna High School
Charlize Coles
Charlize is the daughter of Charlotte
Coles
her extracurricular activities include
Varsity Cheer Beta Club and FBLA Club
she has been recognized by the National
Honors Society and The National Society
of High School student Scholars
she has also served as the FBLA Longwood
a region president for the FBLA State
Vice and also the FBA State vice
president representing Longwood region
so both the president and the vice
president referencing Longwood region
please join me in in recognizing her
[Music]
and then from Tunstall High School of
Haley Holt
Haley is the daughter of Michelle Holt
her extracurricular activities include
the interact Club Beta Club Trojan Club
and FBLA
she has received the following
recognitions first place in the FBLA
journalism first place in FBLA
entrepreneurship first place in Young
Writers poetry she has also served as
the secretary of the interact club and
president of the internet Club please
join me in recognizing all of our
[Music]
[Applause]
s okay congratulations students and
parents if you can remember this date
we'll also send you an email
letting you know the first meeting
but the first meeting will take place on
July the 11th at three o'clock we'll
provide dinner that evening that's an
orientation and then the first board
meetings that evening if there's a
conflict we'll we'll let you know who to
contact regarding that but right now
July the 11th at 3 pm here at the
central office
congratulations students
okay
next we have our procurement bed for
roofing to have a motion
we need a motion to approve those
seconds yeah
okay second
roll call please got to help myself Mr
burden
Mr Burton Mr Fitzgerald
Fitzgerald Merricks Mr Mays yeah Mr Moon
Mr dolls aye now we need
thank you
have a second
any questions on the roof beers
Mr Hudson you don't have any issues with
any of that right we're good to go
oh we begin to see a little more
competition out there than we had before
a year ago we couldn't get anybody to
build stuff
okay got a year ago we couldn't get this
we have one right yep
can you get emotions today don't call
please Mr Burton
aye Mr Fitzgerald aye Mr Henderson aye
Ms Merricks Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr
dolls
we have a revision of school board
policies there's quite a few and we want
to waver the first reading and go ahead
and prove them this reading do I have a
motion
sumu second
any discussion on any of them roll call
please Mr Burton Mr Fitzgerald aye Ms
Henderson aye Ms Merricks Mr Mills yes
Mr Moon Mr Doss uh before we go back
into close I know it's Tisha
appreciation week but since this is the
last meeting before the school year ends
I want to thank all of our employees of
Pennsylvania County schools because it's
been to me it's been a short year I know
some of the teachers seemed like it said
it had been a long year but I know it's
the new Norm is a little different than
what it was pre-covered but at least
we're back in school every day and it's
kind of normal but I do appreciate all
the hard work that every single employee
did and thank you for a great school
year and and I went to visit some
schools today and you know pre-covered I
would go visit and you walk in and the
kids are sitting at their desk and they
got all these papers doing and all
every class I went in today they were on
the laptops even the elementary I went
into third grade elementary class and
they're the students were on the
Chromebooks working
so it's to see them now with the
technology that we that Mr Scott and his
team has put out in the in the
Chromebook basically for every student
it's really different look than it was
pre-covered so I guess the new Norm now
is different but I do want to thank
everybody that for Pennsylvania County
schools that worked really hard this
year
so thank y'all at this time we will
conclude our live stream in YouTube
broadcast of tonight's meeting and the
board is returning to the recess closed
session to discuss student disciplinary
matters the board will return to open
session in this Auditorium in person to
certify that closed meeting was
conducted in Conformity with the
statutory requirements contained in the
code of Virginia related to action items
will be presented as appropriate in the
open session so that will conclude our
regular meeting tonight we do have a few
more closed things to do but thank all
you all for coming we appreciate I hope
you all have a great sum of the students
that are graduating I wish you success
and whatever you do going forward and
those that are coming back next year
we'll see you soon
thank you